task/0.🌌📊ℹ - space-parameters.md, before:

Space parameters
================


Figure out flexible parameterisation for spaces

```
2026-01-18		new task	🌌📊ℹ
2026-01-23		0.1a		pre-release
```


Moved some more stuff to html-common that will *hopefully* end up good enough to serve the other projects.
For now worm-farm is the only project using the html-common version of PlanarSpace, so will try out a few things, and try to keep it in step with Turtle until it's ready to switch over to the shared version.

One thing I need here that has been languishing in Turtle is space size parameters.
I'll try to use 'size' rather than dimensions for these kinds of uses as dimensions more properly refer to things like X, Y and Z - 1D, 2D, 3D etc.

In turtle so far size parameters have been 'soft' - extents aren't really limited, it just determines how the grid gets drawn.
For wormfarm I need to be able to tie this down in various ways; not going put the hard movement limits in yet, just want to figure out how to specify them.

There are actually quite a few potential space parameters I've pondered, but here are main ones for now:
* x extent				- x min, x max
* y extent				- y min, y max
* polar axis			- vertical up / right horizontal
* polar directiom		- clockwise / ccw
* resolution/precision	- decimal places, significant figures (very much needs attention)

So how to specify these for new space instances?
My first thought is that each space module defines it's own parameter structure type, so that the space constructor looks like `new FooSpace('myFooSpace', parameters)` everywhere.
If that typechecks okay...



Pre-release - 0.1a
------------------

I'm doing more other stuff in here than soring out space parameters right now, so I'm going to to a pre-release just to get the other stuff back into main.

Commit message:

Prob going to call this 0.1 around here

task/0.🌌📊ℹ - space-parameters.md, after:

Space parameters
================


Figure out flexible parameterisation for spaces

```
2026-01-18		new task	🌌📊ℹ
2026-01-23		0.1a		pre-release
```


Moved some more stuff to html-common that will *hopefully* end up good enough to serve the other projects.
For now worm-farm is the only project using the html-common version of PlanarSpace, so will try out a few things, and try to keep it in step with Turtle until it's ready to switch over to the shared version.

One thing I need here that has been languishing in Turtle is space size parameters.
I'll try to use 'size' rather than dimensions for these kinds of uses as dimensions more properly refer to things like X, Y and Z - 1D, 2D, 3D etc.

In turtle so far size parameters have been 'soft' - extents aren't really limited, it just determines how the grid gets drawn.
For wormfarm I need to be able to tie this down in various ways; not going put the hard movement limits in yet, just want to figure out how to specify them.

There are actually quite a few potential space parameters I've pondered, but here are main ones for now:
* x extent				- x min, x max
* y extent				- y min, y max
* polar axis			- vertical up / right horizontal
* polar directiom		- clockwise / ccw
* resolution/precision	- decimal places, significant figures (very much needs attention)

So how to specify these for new space instances?
My first thought is that each space module defines it's own parameter structure type, so that the space constructor looks like `new FooSpace('myFooSpace', parameters)` everywhere.
If that typechecks okay...



Pre-release - 0.1a
------------------

I'm doing more other stuff in here than sorting out space parameters right now, so I'm going to to a pre-release just to get the other stuff back into main.

Still faffing around with other stuff, will probably just call this here as 0.1 and continue on with the branch.
