Space parameters
================


Figure out flexible parameterisation for spaces

```
2026-01-18		new task	🌌📊ℹ
2026-01-23		0.1a		pre-release
```


Moved some more stuff to html-common that will *hopefully* end up good enough to serve the other projects.
For now worm-farm is the only project using the html-common version of PlanarSpace, so will try out a few things, and try to keep it in step with Turtle until it's ready to switch over to the shared version.

One thing I need here that has been languishing in Turtle is space size parameters.
I'll try to use 'size' rather than dimensions for these kinds of uses as dimensions more properly refer to things like X, Y and Z - 1D, 2D, 3D etc.

In turtle so far size parameters have been 'soft' - extents aren't really limited, it just determines how the grid gets drawn.
For wormfarm I need to be able to tie this down in various ways; not going put the hard movement limits in yet, just want to figure out how to specify them.

There are actually quite a few potential space parameters I've pondered, but here are main ones for now:
* x extent				- x min, x max
* y extent				- y min, y max
* polar axis			- vertical up / right horizontal
* polar directiom		- clockwise / ccw
* resolution/precision	- decimal places, significant figures (very much needs attention)

So how to specify these for new space instances?
My first thought is that each space module defines it's own parameter structure type, so that the space constructor looks like `new FooSpace('myFooSpace', parameters)` everywhere.
If that typechecks okay...



Pre-release - 0.1a
------------------

I'm doing more other stuff in here than sorting out space parameters right now, so I'm going to to a pre-release just to get the other stuff back into main.

Still faffing around with other stuff, will probably just call this here as 0.1 and continue on with the branch.



Angle Issues
------------

PlanarSpace angles incorrect?
(was going to be a new task/branch, but the problem is in this branch)


Just spotted this while thinking about space mapping:
```

	let s = new PlanarSpace.Space('example-space',{});
	let p = s.newPoint('p');
	p.setCartesian(15,20);

	p.x				// 15
	p.y				// 20
	p.angle			// Object { #degrees: -126.86989764584402 }
	p.radius		// 25
```

That angle should come back as +36.86989...
Prob not a big issue, just want to check it out and normalise it for everyone involved.
I'm not using html-common in turtle yet, so might want to bite the bullet and change it over around about here as well.
Should also wrap up the 0.1 release.


### Have a look

I've just cut a branch off main for the task and there it looks right:

```
p.angle Object { #degrees: 36.86989764584399 }
```
So I've done something in this branch that needs fixing.
*Sigh* oh for a test suite....

Looks like I'd started frigging around with the space settings in this branch and hadn't really completed/tested it yet.
So back to that then.


Testing lib
-----------

I'm having a go at a little testing/assertion library to make some of this a little smoother.
One thing that's immediately annoying though are the constructors I've used for Point and Position.

For the testing I want to do something like this:
```
	test.testArray(
		predicate.allEqual,
		[
			[(new Point( 100, 100)).degrees, 45],
			[(new Point( 100,-100)).degrees, 135],
			[(new Point(-100, 100)).degrees, -45],
			[(new Point(-100,-100)).degrees, -135],
		]
	);
```
That will let me know if the space config and maths are working correctly.
But the constructor/setter arrangement I have won't let me do that right now, so they'll need to change.
The constructors should allow for (optionally) one set of initial coordinates, in the space's "base" coordinate system.

I'm going to end up breaking some other things too, like pushing entity names to the back of the list I think.
Need to decide on all this.

### Use `undefined` to get arg defaults

Something I've been looking for for ages, turns out you *can* omit args to get the defaults:

> Default function parameters allow named parameters to be initialized with default values if no value ***or undefined*** is passed

So for things like space Points/Postions where I've (so far at least) wanted the option of adding a helpful name field, **but also** wanted to sometimes use default coords, I can now do things like this:

	p = new Point(parentSpace, undefined, 'a particular point of interest');

And that should pick up the coordinate defaults.
Man this is going to help a bunch of things.
I should try it a few different ways, and come to a resolution about the 'best' way to order arguments.


Return after starting test lib
------------------------------

Have something very basic that's starting to work.
Coming back here to do some cleaning up so I can begin to try out the test lib.

* One fairly trivial change I want to make is to cut down on using 'name' as a field in classes, but use desc (description) instead mostly.
'Name' is more syntactically/semantically overloaded; description is more neutral.
* Also push it to the back of the arg list as it's not critical, and I'm not using varargs for any of this

Next to get the constructors sorted for easier testing.


### Custom setters that return `this`

This is an idea I've been toying with, don't know whether I want to make it a general pattern though.

> Setters cannot return a value.ts(2408)

Stock js setters cannot return anything, so they can't be chained.
I'm not of superfan of method chaining generally, it gets overdone sometimes and is semantically weird, put in some places it's convenient.

I'm going to trial it here because it will be convenient for testing, but will keep a beady eye on.


Actual Testing
--------------
Have the very first planar space trials tentatively going now over in `experiment`.
Will bring some of that back here to continue dev and actual testing.
Btw, this branch/task is getting ridiculous. Really should be broken apart.
Also, the angle bug in branch this appears gone.


### Coordinate interface implementation
I've tentatively removed the PolarCoordinate interface on Position because I think adding it actually leads to misleadingly named methods like `angle` and `degrees` which are ambiguous on that class.
This will hopefully make the angle queries clearer (fingeres crossed).


### Test execution

It occurs to me that the way I have the test setup at the moment might need some options going forward.
As it is right now the expressions (except those for the 'Excepts' predicate) are executed immediately at setup time.
Deferring execution to test run-time could be beneficial for other kinds of tests, and stringifying the expressions for display might be easier that way as well.


The space configuration fix???
------------------------------

So I tinkered with it for a bit, and looks like i've fixed it, but not entirely sure why the fix works, and what was wrong with it in the first place.

For reference, the change was for `#jsAngleAxisAdjust` from 0 to Math.PI for the case of a Maths-conventional angular system (polar axis: 'x'; rotation:counter-clockwise).

That constructor code is still a bit crap right now and will come back to, but wanna take another look at the maths in `getAngleFrom`, which is where this stuff gets used.
Hmmm:
```js
	/** getAngleFrom
	 * TODO: Needs a bit of attention...
	 * @param {CartesianCoordinates} center
	 * @param {CartesianCoordinates} cartesian
	 * @returns {Angle}
	 */
	getAngleFrom(center, cartesian) {
		//console.debug(`${this.#desc}.getAngleFrom:`, arguments);
		const result = new Angle();
		result.radians = this.#jsAngleAxisAdjust + (this.#jsAngleDirectionAdjust * Math.atan2(center.y - cartesian.y, center.x - cartesian.x));
		result.normalise180();
		//console.debug(`${this.#desc}.getAngleFrom:`, result);
		return result;
	}/* getAngleFrom */
```

I think that's nearly correct, but a bit muddled.
The subtractions in atan2 should have been the other way around, and the `jsAngleAxisAdjust`s weren't right.

Going to change the way the polar axis is specified too - I'd been using plain 'y' for the navigational defaults I'm currently using, but to more complete need to be able to specify + or - as well.
Problem is I want to be able to eventually configure the x and Y directions too (mainly y for SVG) and would like the polar axis designation to be independent of the coordinate system.
So will try out using 'up', 'down', 'left' and 'right'.
Might change my mind later, but will see how it goes first.

Stuck on 'Polar axis down, anticlockwise'.
