Initial release
===============


Get v0.1 out the door.

```
2026-02-25		🆕🔰🐤		new task
2026-02-25		v0.1		done
2026-03-02		🛠🪛		maintenance started
2026-03-17		v0.1.1		done
```

The space parameter job is dragging, but having gotten the planar space polar config tested and sorted it's time to cut `v0.1`.





Wrapup
------

* Lots of little tweaks for styles, only seen on html-experiment for now though
* Added testing library *in statu nascendi*. Will haunt me I'm sure.
* Several changes to PlanarSpace:
* Some classes now allow setting coords at construct time (allows for terser testing)
* Have stopped using 'name' as a property and started using 'desc' instead; also moved to the end of the construct array
* Have added some 'custom'/convenience setters that allow more args; they also return `this` for a little chaining (cf 'Mutator chaining considered harmful'?)
* Added `module/PlanarSpace_test.html` to test out all the polar axis and direction variants
* Fixed some maths, looks like it's good now
* blah blah blah




v0.1.1 - HTMLApp maintenance
----------------------------

### Event listener registration

Running into issues with how the event listeners are registered.
Have tentatively changed addEventListeners to static, but like that it needs args, so still working it out.


### localStorage namespacing

Only reference here is HTMLApp.setColourScheme [162] - that will need to go under an app name.

	polygon:"[object Object]"

Forgot all the values are strings and objects need to be de/serialised.
So eg `polygon.colourScheme = 'light'` doesn't work directly.
So then the either bundle them all up under single app keys, and have some serialisation code ready to go, or prefix the keys with the appName.
I think the second will be a *bit* easier for dev/debugging, so will try that first.


### Wrapup

I'm going to go a little bit rogue here and wrap and merge this.
Want to try out submodule branch tracking and I need these changes for the current maintenance branch for turtle.
So here's the situation:
* I've removed the `v0.1` tag, and added a branch pointer with the same name, `v0.1`
* When this dev branch gets merged, I'll tag main with `v0.1.1` and bump the  `v0.1` branch up
* In turtle I'll change the submodule to track the `v0.1` branch
* I'll have to review what branches the other projects are tracking

Feel like this is pretty basic stuff, but only just figuring it out properly now.
Anyways I'll give it crack and mop up any mess.

The actual work notes:
* addEventListeners is now static so that other (non-htmlApp derivative files) can use it
* using appName as a namespace for localStorage


v0.1.2 - Small colour scheme css improvement
--------------------------------------------

* Small improvement to calculate scheme colours off a base colour
