Common styles
=============

Add a common set of reusable styles for the fullpage apps.

* [ldpercy-workspace common-styles](<../../ldpercy-workspace/task/🖧👚 - common styles.md>)
* [ldpercy-workspace colour flow](<../../ldpercy-workspace/task/🎨🢡🖽 - style flow.md>)

```
2026-04-28		🖧👚		new task
2026-05-09		0.3.0		wrapup
2026-05-11		0.3.1		begin followup
```

* [x] App info dialog style
* [x] panel group classes
* [x] panel class
* [x] Demo page for full page app - rough, but functional
* [x] Some customisation options


Easyish jobs
------------

Moved the `panel-group` styles into here, they were the same across the apps.
Will need to be revisited sometime down the track.


Added a common set of styles for the app info dialogs.
Not perfect, but at least they're common now so I can keep them in sync with each other.


ui-panel
--------

This one is taking a bit more time, more fiddly with grids and gaps and things.
Have it looking it fairly reasonable across the apps now though.

The thing I need to sort out next is properly defining the inputs (or inheritance) from the apps:
* background colour
* text colour
* border colour
* gap sizing
* accent colour
* etc

This also relates to how properties like colours flow into the panels.
I've started another task in ldpercy-workspace to start formalising some of the flow ideas, but for now I'm starting to wonder if I can push this as first release...?


### Sizes and spacing

For screensaver's fairly busy panels I've reduced the grid gaps by doing this:
```css
.ui-panel {
	--gap: 0.1em;
	label { margin-top: var(--gap); }
}
```
Starting to look at all the 'ex' lengths and wondering if they also should be made into var inputs in a similar way.


Page backgrounds
----------------

Will use `hsl` for relative colours here as its lightness channel is wider, goes from from black to white.
These work pretty well for generic light/dark backgrounds, gives a bit of flavour without being overpowering:

```css
	color-scheme: light;
	--scheme-colour: var(--schemeColour-light,  hsl(from var(--project-colour) h s 95 ) );

	color-scheme: dark;
	--scheme-colour: var(--schemeColour-dark,  hsl(from var(--project-colour) h s 05 ) );
```

With allowance for custom overrides.




Panel backgrounds
-----------------

Have split apart the background colour, not looking too bad now.
But i think the opacity is too low now, and bumping it up brings too much colour into the panel.
So need to see if I can make it more opaque, but wash it out a bit similar to what I've done with the lightness for scheme backgrounds (see above).

Some improvements, better now.



Wrapup
------

Going to start wrapping this whole thing up and releasing the changes for the apps.
It's very far from perfect, but good enough for current requirements in the apps.
Happy to push out dot releases for extra bits that turn up, need adhustment etc.
Also getting more ideas about style abstraction, so will use this as a bit of a starting point.

* Added common 'App info' dialog style
* Common classes for panel groups
* Brought in and revamped the ui panel class
* Added a demo page for full page app styles where I can try things out, pretty basic, but handy
* Heaps of smaller tweaks and adjustments

### Future work
* Work on consistent units for the structural features of the ui panel: eg, normalise onto ems, or a common customisable base unit from which all other gaps, padding, margins etc are derived
* Separate the typography or form tweaks from the panel? Might depend on some things....




Follow up 1
===========

Going to start splitting up some of the css into some smaller topical units, experimental at this stage.

